The Project Gutenberg eBook of Betty Crocker's Bisquick Cook Book: 157 Recipes and Ideas
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Betty Crocker's Bisquick Cook Book: 157 Recipes and Ideas

Author: Betty Crocker

Release date: August 3, 2020 [eBook #62841]
                Most recently updated: October 18, 2024

Language: English

Credits: Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Lisa Corcoran and the Online
        Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BETTY CROCKER'S BISQUICK COOK BOOK: 157 RECIPES AND IDEAS ***

                           _Betty Crocker’s_
                                Bisquick
                               Cook Book


                         157 Recipes and Ideas
                          _from Betty Crocker
                           of General Mills_

                                                  © 1956 GEN. MILLS INC.

    [Illustration: Betty Crocker]

“You do so many nice special things for the family more often, because
you start so far ahead with Bisquick!”

                                                         _Betty Crocker_
                                                        of General Mills

    [Illustration: _These and other recipes are also on the Bisquick
    box._]

    [Illustration: PANCAKES]

Beat 2 cups Bisquick, 1 egg, 1⅔ cups milk with rotary beater until well
blended. Pour batter onto heated griddle. Turn pancakes when bubbles
appear. _Makes about 18 4″ pancakes._ For thinner pancakes use 2 cups
milk.

    [Illustration: MUFFINS]

Heat oven to 400° (mod. hot). Blend together 2 tbsp. sugar, 1 egg, ¾ cup
milk, 2 cups Bisquick. Then beat vigorously 30 seconds. _For richer
batter_, add 2 tbsp. more sugar, 2 tbsp. melted shortening or salad oil.
Fill 12 well greased muffin cups ⅔ full. Bake _15 min._

    [Illustration: WAFFLES]

Beat 2 cups Bisquick, 1⅔ cups milk, 1 egg, 2 tbsp. salad oil or melted
shortening with rotary beater until well blended. Spoon onto hot waffle
baker. _Makes 2 large or 6 small._

    [Illustration: COFFEE CAKE]

Make Muffin batter. Spread into greased 9″ round layer pan or 8 or 9″
square pan. Sprinkle with mixture of: 2 tsp. cinnamon, ¼ cup sugar, 2
tbsp. Bisquick, 2 tbsp. soft butter. Blend with fork until crumbly. Bake
_20 to 25 min._

    [Illustration: DUMPLINGS]

Mix 2 cups Bisquick, ¾ cup milk well with fork. Drop tablespoonfuls
gently onto boiling stew. Cook over low heat 10 minutes, uncovered and
10 minutes covered. Let stew bubble gently. _Makes 10 to 12._




                       HOW TO MAKE GOOD BISCUITS


  HEAT OVEN TO 450° (HOT)

    [Illustration: Step 1]

Add ⅔ cup milk _all at once_ to 2 cups Bisquick. Stir with fork into a
soft dough.

Beat dough 15 strokes. It will be stiff and sticky.

    [Illustration: Step 2]

Roll dough around on cloth-covered board lightly dusted with Bisquick to
prevent sticking.

    [Illustration: Step 3]

Knead gently 8 to 10 times to smooth up dough.

    [Illustration: Step 4]

Roll ½″ thick. Biscuits double in size in baking. Dip cutter in
Bisquick. Cut close together to save rerolling.

Bake on ungreased shiny baking sheet _10 to 15 min._; close together for
soft sides, 1″ apart for crusty sides. _Makes 12 2″ biscuits._

    [Illustration: FRUIT SHORTCAKE]

Add ¾ cup cream (or ½ cup milk plus ¼ cup melted butter), to 2 cups
Bisquick. Add 2 tbsp. sugar, if desired. Proceed as for biscuits except
cut into six 3″ shortcakes.




                          _What’s for Dinner?_
                               HOT BREADS




_How to be Famous at Home—serve tender fragrant hot breads with your
dinner._
                                                         _Betty Crocker_


                            DINNER BISCUITS

_Just a bit richer._

Make Biscuits (p. 3)—_except_ add ¼ cup _soft_ butter or shortening or 3
tbsp. salad oil to Bisquick before mixing.

    [Illustration: HERB BISCUITS]

Make Biscuits (p. 3)—_except_ mix ¼ tsp. nutmeg, ½ tsp. crumbled dry
sage, 1¼ tsp. caraway seeds with Bisquick. Good with muffins, too.

    [Illustration: CHEESE BREAD]

_Wonderful warm, sliced ½″ thick._

  1 egg, beaten
  1½ cups milk
  3¾ cups Bisquick
  ¾ cup grated sharp cheese

Heat oven to 350° (mod.). Blend all together. Beat 30 seconds, until
well blended. Pour into well greased, waxed paper-lined 9x5x2½″ loaf
pan. Bake _1 hr._ When serving cold, slice thin.


                           CRANBERRY MUFFINS

Mix ¾ cup raw cranberries (cut in halves or quarters) and ½ cup
confectioners’ sugar. Let stand ½ to 1 hr. Then fold into Muffin batter
(p. 2). Bake.


                          BUTTERMILK BISCUITS

Make Biscuits (p. 3)—except use ¾ cup buttermilk for liquid.

    [Illustration: CORN STICKS OR MUFFINS]

Heat oven to 450° (hot). Make Muffin batter (p. 2)—except substitute ¾
cup corn meal for ¾ cup Bisquick. Bake 15 min. in greased muffin or corn
stick pans. Bake it in a round layer pan and you’ve got corn bread.


                        SO NICE TO COME HOME TO

                        Old-fashioned Beef Stew
                           Hot Biscuits (p. 3)
                    (or any hot bread on this page)
                          Cabbage-Radish Slaw
                   Pineapple Upside-down Cake (p. 18)


                             BUTTER STICKS

_Different and delicious._ (_Pictured on inside of back cover._) Make
Biscuit dough (p. 3). Roll into 10x6″ rectangle. Cut in half lengthwise.
Cut each half into 12 strips. Melt ⅓ cup butter; pour half of it into
13x9½x2″ oblong pan. Place strips in pan. Pour remaining butter over
tops. Bake.

_Neat Trick:_ Make same as Butter Sticks—_except_ cut in squares,
triangles, rounds. Or use your cooky cutters and have fun.


                        QUICK PARKERHOUSE ROLLS

_Look like rolls—taste like biscuits._

Make Biscuit dough (p. 3). Roll ¼″ thick. Cut with 2½″ cutter. Butter
lightly and fold in half. Place close together in ungreased round layer
pan or square pan. _Bake 10 min._




                              MAIN DISHES




_Big-hearted dishes ... bright and cheerful!_
                                                         _Betty Crocker_


                            CHICKEN POT PIE

  ¼ cup chicken fat or butter
  ¼ cup Bisquick
  1½ tsp. salt
  ¼ tsp. pepper
  2 cups chicken stock
  ⅔ cup cream
  3 to 4 cups chicken (large pieces)

Heat oven to 450° (hot). Heat chicken fat; blend in Bisquick, salt,
pepper. Take from heat. Stir in chicken stock, cream, chicken. Bring to
boil; boil 1 min., stirring constantly. Pour into oblong baking dish.
Cover with Chicken or Meat Pie topping (p. 6). Bake _15 min._ _4 to 6
servings._


                         DOUBLE CHICKEN POT PIE

Multiply the chicken flavor by adding 3 to 4 tbsp. chicken fat to
Bisquick when making topping.

    [Illustration: FAVORITE PORK AND DUMPLINGS]

  6 pork steaks or chops
  1 med. onion, thinly sliced
  ¼ cup water

Brown meat in deep skillet or heavy kettle. Season with salt and pepper;
add onion and water. Cover skillet; simmer until meat is tender (40 to
50 min.). Add 1½ to 3 cups water. Make Dumplings (p. 2). Drop dumplings
on top of hot mixture. Cook. Thicken liquid with Bisquick for gravy.
Season. _6 servings._

_Color Note_: Add ¼ cup chopped parsley or chives to dumplings.

    [Illustration: SALMON RABBIT PIE]

  1-lb. can salmon, drained, boned, and flaked
  1 cup cooked peas (8-oz. can), drained
  2 tbsp. finely chopped green pepper
  1 cup grated cheese (¼ lb.)
  ½ cup milk
  2 tbsp. mayonnaise
  ⅓ cup milk
  1 cup Bisquick

Heat oven to 450° (hot). Mix salmon, peas, green pepper; spread in
greased 10x6” baking dish. Blend cheese, ½ cup milk; pour over salmon.
Mix mayonnaise, ⅓ cup milk, Bisquick with fork. Drop with spoon on
salmon mixture. Bake 10 to 15 min., until browned. _6 servings._

    [Illustration: CORN AND SHRIMP CASSEROLE]

  ⅓ cup chopped green pepper
  2 tbsp. finely chopped onion
  2 tbsp. fat
  2 tbsp. Bisquick
  1 tsp. salt
  ¼ tsp. pepper
  2 cups cream-style corn (no. 303 can)
  1 egg, slightly beaten
  1½ cups cleaned raw or cooked shrimp

Heat oven to 450° (hot.) Sauté green pepper and onion in hot fat. Blend
in Bisquick, salt, pepper. Add corn. Stir until mixture boils. Take from
heat; gradually stir mixture into egg. Add shrimp; pour into greased
1½-qt. baking dish. Cover with Meat Pie topping (p. 6). Bake _15 min._
_4 to 6 servings._


                    SUNDAY DINNER ON SATURDAY NIGHT

                    Oven-Crisp Chicken and Biscuits
                       Broccoli with Lemon Butter
                         Tomato-Cucumber Salad
                    Strawberry Glacé Short Pie (p. 9)
                                 Coffee

    [Illustration: OVEN-CRISP CHICKEN AND BISCUITS]

_Biscuits and chicken baked together._

  1 cup Bisquick
  2 tsp. _each_ salt and paprika
  ¼ tsp. pepper
  ½ cup shortening (half butter)
  1 cut-up frying chicken

Heat oven to 425° (hot). Mix Bisquick, seasonings in paper bag. Melt
shortening in oven in 13x9½x2″ oblong pan. Shake pieces of chicken in a
bag a few at a time to coat thoroughly. Lay chicken, skin side down, in
single layer in hot shortening. Bake _45 min._

Make Biscuits (p. 3). Turn chicken and push to one side in pan; set
biscuits in single layer on other side. Bake _another 15 min._, or until
biscuits are lightly browned and chicken tender. _4 servings._

To make gravy, remove chicken and biscuits to serving platter. Add 2
tbsp. Bisquick (saved from dredgings) to drippings in pan. Cook over low
heat until mixture is smooth and bubbly. Take from heat; gradually stir
in about 1½ cups hot water. Boil 1 min.


                        TUNA BROCCOLI CASSEROLE

_Broccoli right in your biscuits!_

  1 pkg. frozen broccoli
  7-oz. can tuna, drained and broken
  10½-oz. can cream of mushroom soup
  ½ cup milk
  dash salt

Heat oven to 450° (hot). Cook broccoli until almost tender. Snip off
enough buds to make 1/4 cup (save for biscuits). Cut rest into
bite-sized pieces, place in greased 9″ square pan. Sprinkle with tuna.
Mix soup, milk, salt; pour over tuna. Make Broccoli Biscuit dough (see
below) and drop with teaspoon over mixture. Bake _15 min._ _6 servings._


                           BROCCOLI BISCUITS

Make Biscuits (p. 3)—_except_ stir ¼ cup cooked broccoli buds into
Bisquick before adding milk.


                           CRISPY FRIED FISH

_You never tasted fish so crisp and good. It’s the Bisquick that does
it. (Pictured on cover.)_

Place 6 serving-sized fish fillets in shallow pan. Add buttermilk to
cover and 1 tsp. salt for each pound of fish. Let stand about ½ hr.
Drain. Dip each fillet in Bisquick. Fry quickly in ¼ cup hot fat (part
butter) until well browned and slightly crisp on one side; turn and
repeat on second side. _6 servings._


                          CHICKEN OR MEAT PIE

Heat oven to 450° (hot). Make Biscuit dough (p. 3). Pat or roll to fit
top of baking dish. (Half recipe fits 8″ dish.) Cut 2 or 3 slits in
center. Place on hot cooked mixture. Bake _about 15 min._

    [Illustration: FRITTERS]

_To go with fried chicken ... as prepared by southern cooks. And try the
fruit fritters for dessert. (Pictured on inside of back cover.)_

  2 cups Bisquick
  ⅔ cup milk
  1 egg
  2 cups fruit or cooked vegetables (such as corn kernels, cut-up
          pineapple, peaches, etc.), drained

Mix Bisquick, milk, egg, until well blended (batter will be lumpy). Stir
in fruit or vegetables. Drop by small teaspoonfuls into deep hot fat
(360 to 375°). Turn and fry until golden brown on both sides. Drain on
absorbent paper. _Makes about 2 doz._


                            BISQUICK NOODLES

_A new easier way to make real homemade noodles._

Work 1 cup Bisquick into 1 egg, beaten. Roll and stretch dough to paper
thinness. Cut into 1½″ squares or regular noodle strips. Cover lightly
with towel and let dry about 6 hr. or overnight until brittle. Drop into
simmering broth or thin gravy. Cover and cook gently about 15 min., or
until tender. _4 to 6 servings._




              _Breading meat, chicken, sea food, or fish._

Simply coat with Bisquick. Or dip in Bisquick, then slightly beaten egg,
then Bisquick. Flavor with onion or garlic or celery salt, or your
favorite seasonings.

    [Illustration: MEXICAN DINNER]

_Perfect corn bread batter, and so easy now._

  1 cup chopped onion
  2 tbsp. fat
  1 lb. ground beef
  1 tsp. salt
  ½ tsp. chili powder
  1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce
  10½-oz. can tomato soup
  1 cup water

Heat oven to 450° (hot). Brown onion in hot fat; add meat and brown
until crumbly. Add seasonings, soup, and water; bring just to boiling,
stirring occasionally. Pour Corn Bread Batter over meat in skillet. Bake
_20 min._ _6 to 8 servings._

_Corn Bread Batter_: Mix well with fork ¾ cup Bisquick, ¾ cup corn meal,
½ tsp. salt, 1 egg, ¾ cup milk.


                          BATTER FRIED SHRIMP

(_Pictured on inside of back cover._)

  1 egg, slightly beaten
  ¼ cup water
  ½ cup Bisquick
  ¼ tsp. salt, if desired
  12-oz. box frozen shrimp (about 17) or fresh shrimp

Mix egg, water. Beat in Bisquick, salt. Peel shell from shrimp, leaving
last section and tail intact. Cut a slit through center back without
severing either end; remove black line. Dry shrimp; dip in batter; fry
in deep hot fat (375°) 1½ to 2 min., until golden brown. Drain shrimp on
absorbent paper. Serve with tartar sauce or cocktail sauce.




                          _What’s for Dinner?_
                                DESSERTS




_Glamorous desserts to do easily! Find more under “Company’s Coming” and
“For Lunch or Supper.”_
                                                         _Betty Crocker_


                            SUNDAE SHORT PIE

_Like “French Pastry” crust, rich and cooky-crisp. Fill cooled shell
with ice cream, top with fresh or frozen fruit._


                               SHORT PIE

  1 cup Bisquick
  ¼ cup soft butter (½ stick)
  3 tbsp. boiling water

Heat oven to 450° (hot). Put Bisquick and butter in 9″ pie pan. Add
boiling water and stir vigorously with fork until dough forms a ball and
cleans the pan. Dough will be puffy and soft. With fingers and heel of
hand, pat evenly into pie pan, bringing up dough to edge of pan. This
may seem skimpy but will not be when baked. Flute edges, if desired.
Bake _8 to 10 min._


                            PEACH PINWHEELS

  2 tbsp. Bisquick
  1 cup sugar
  ½ tsp. cinnamon
  1 cup water
  1 tbsp. lemon juice
  4 cups sliced fresh peaches

Heat oven to 425° (hot). Mix all together. Pour into 11½x7½x1½″ oblong
baking dish. Top with Pinwheels. (See recipe below.) Bake _25 min._
Serve warm with cream. _8 to 10 servings._


                               PINWHEELS

Make ½ recipe Fruit Shortcake dough (p. 3). Pat into 6″ square; spread
with 1 tbsp. soft butter. Sprinkle with 2 tbsp. sugar, ¼ tsp. cinnamon,
3 tbsp. chopped nuts. Roll as for jelly roll; moisten edge; and press to
seal. Cut into 8 to 10 slices.


                        FRUIT SHORT PIE COBBLER

  2 tbsp. Bisquick
  1 cup sugar
  ½ tsp. cinnamon
  1 cup water
  1 tbsp. lemon juice
  4 cups fresh blueberries, peaches, or cherries

Heat oven to 425° (hot). Mix ingredients. Pour into 11½x7½x1½″ oblong
baking dish. Make Short Pie dough above. Divide in 8 parts. Pat into 3½″
squares to cover fruit mixture. Bake _25 min._ Serve warm with cream.


                           HOT FUDGE PUDDING

_The chocolate sauce you love bakes on the bottom. (Pictured on inside
of back cover.)_

  1½ cups Bisquick
  ½ cup sugar
  ½ to 1 cup chopped nuts
  ½ cup milk
  ½ cup brown sugar (packed)
  1½ cups boiling water
  6-oz. pkg. semi-sweet chocolate pieces

Heat oven to 350° (mod.). Mix Bisquick, sugar, nuts, milk. Turn batter
into greased 2-qt. baking dish. Sprinkle with brown sugar. Pour water
over chocolate pieces. Let stand 1 or 2 min. until chocolate melts, then
stir until blended. Pour over batter. Bake _40 to 45 min._ Let stand 5
min. to cool slightly. During baking, the pudding will rise to the top
of the dish and sauce will form at the bottom. Invert servings on
plates, dip sauce over each. Serve with cream. _6 to 8 servings._




                            Company’s coming
                        _Luncheon for the girls_


                             CHEESE SOUFFLÉ

_Stands up and stays up as hundreds of homemakers have discovered!
(Pictured on inside of back cover.)_

  ¼ cup Bisquick
  ½ tsp. dry mustard
  1 cup milk
  1 cup grated cheese
  3 eggs, separated
  ¼ tsp. cream of tartar

Heat oven to 350° (mod.). Mix Bisquick, mustard in saucepan. Add small
amount of milk to make paste, then rest of milk gradually. Bring to
boil; boil 1 min., stirring constantly. Stir in cheese; take from heat.
Stir into slightly beaten egg yolks. Beat egg whites and cream of tartar
until stiff enough to hold soft peaks. Fold into cheese mixture. Bake in
ungreased 1½-qt. baking dish, set in pan of hot water, _50 to 60 min._
or until silver knife inserted near center comes out clean. _4 to 6
servings._


                    SALMON, TUNA, OR CHICKEN SOUFFLÉ

Try 1 cup salmon or tuna, or 1½ cups cut-up cooked chicken, in place of
cheese. Add 1 tbsp. lemon juice, 1 tsp. grated onion.

    [Illustration: ASPARAGUS SHORTCAKE]

Make 6 individual shortcakes (see directions for Fruit Shortcake, p. 3).
Split, butter, and put together with asparagus spears. Pour hot Cheese
Sauce (p. 16) over top. Garnish with crisp bacon strip or sprig of
parsley. _6 servings._

_When Tomatoes are Ripe_: Substitute a slice of fresh tomato for the
asparagus.

    [Illustration: STRAWBERRY GLACÉ SHORT PIE]

_An elegant filling for a glamorous crust. (Pictured on cover.)_

  1 qt. strawberries
  1 cup water
  1 cup sugar
  3 tbsp. cornstarch

Wash, drain, and hull strawberries. For glaze, simmer 1 cup of the
berries with ⅔ cup water until berries start to break up (about 3 min.).
Blend sugar, cornstarch, remaining ⅓ cup water; stir into boiling
mixture. Boil 1 min., stirring constantly. Cool. Pour remaining 3 cups
of berries into baked Short Pie (p. 8). Cover with glaze. Refrigerate
until firm ... about 2 hr. Top with whipped cream or ice cream.


                     RING-TOPPED CHICKEN SHORTCAKES

Heat oven to 450° (hot). Make Biscuit dough (p. 3). Pat or roll out ¼″
thick. Cut half the dough with biscuit cutter; half with doughnut cutter
the same size. Place on baking sheet. Bake _10 to 15 min._ Butter plain
rounds and cover with Creamed Chicken (p. 16). Set biscuit rings on top
and drop spoonful of red jelly into each hole. Garnish with parsley. _8
servings._


                         DATE VELVET CRUMB CAKE

Bring 6½-oz. pkg. dates, cut-up (about 1 cup) and 1 cup water to rolling
boil; boil 1 min., stirring constantly. Set aside while mixing Velvet
Crumb Cake batter (p. 12). Add ¾ cup date mixture to batter and beat ½
min. Pour into pan. Bake _35 min._ Cool slightly; spread with remaining
date mixture. Top with chopped nuts.




                     _For brunch or kaffee klatch_




_You wrote us your ideas, we developed the recipes, and hundreds of
homemakers helped us test them!_
                                                         _Betty Crocker_

    [Illustration: DOUGHNUTS]

_Light, tender doughnuts made with Bisquick!_

  2 cups Bisquick
  ¼ cup sugar
  ⅓ cup milk
  1 tsp. vanilla
  1 egg
  ¼ tsp. _each_ cinnamon and nutmeg, if desired

Heat fat to 375°. Mix ingredients until well blended. Turn onto lightly
floured surface and knead about 10 times. Roll out ⅜″ thick. Cut with
floured doughnut cutter. Fry in hot fat until golden brown, about 1 min.
to a side. Take from fat and drain on absorbent paper. _Makes about 12
doughnuts._

    [Illustration: SWEDISH PANCAKES]

_“Old country” flavor without old-time fussing._

  1¼ cups Bisquick
  2 cups milk
  3 eggs
  ¼ cup butter, melted

Beat together until blended. Lightly grease a 6 or 7″ skillet. Spoon
about 3 tbsp. batter into hot skillet and tilt to coat bottom of pan.
Cook until small bubbles appear on surface. Loosen edges with spatula,
turn pancake gently and finish baking on other side. Lay on towel or
absorbent paper; place in low oven to keep warm. Spread each with sugar,
jam, applesauce, or whipped cream, etc. and roll up like jelly roll.
Serve warm. _Makes about 15._

    [Illustration: BREAKFAST RING]

Heat oven to 400° (mod. hot). Shape Biscuit dough (p. 3) into 12 balls.
Melt ⅓ cup butter and pour about 3 tbsp. of it into a 9″ ring mold.
Sprinkle with 3 tbsp. brown sugar, 12 cherries (candied or maraschino),
and ¼ cup nuts. Roll balls in rest of melted butter, then in mixture of
½ cup sugar, 1 tsp. cinnamon, 3 tbsp. chopped nuts. Place in ring mold.
Bake _25 to 30 min._ Take from pan while warm.

    [Illustration: COLONIAL JELLY STACK]

Make Pancake batter (p. 2). Pour about ½ cup batter onto heated griddle
for each pancake. Place 1 pancake on warm plate and spread generously
with soft butter and jelly. Top with second pancake. Spread and repeat
until they are 6 high. Sprinkle with confectioners’ sugar. Cut stack
into wedges. Serve hot. _6 servings._

_Neat Trick_: To keep pancakes hot until all are baked, place between
folds of towel in warm oven.


                             SUNDAY BRUNCH

                             Fruit Compote
                          Colonial Jelly Stack
                    Broiled ham, bacon, or sausages
                                 Coffee




_A clever twist of your biscuit dough, a dab of something sweet, you’ve
baked warm, breakfasty treats like these._
                                                         _Betty Crocker_


                      STREUSEL RIBBON COFFEE CAKE

Heat oven to 400° (mod. hot). Make Coffee Cake batter (p. 2). Spread
half in greased and floured 10x6″ oblong pan. Sprinkle with half of
Streusel Topping. Top with rest of batter, then rest of streusel. Bake
_20 to 25 min._

_Streusel Topping_: Mix ½ cup brown sugar (packed), 2 tsp. cinnamon, 2
tbsp. Bisquick, 2 tbsp. melted butter, ½ cup chopped nuts.

    [Illustration: JAM TWISTS]

(_Pictured on inside of back cover._)

  1 egg
  ½ cup cream or ⅓ cup milk
  2 cups Bisquick
  2 tbsp. sugar
  ⅓ cup _thick_ jam or preserves

Heat oven to 450° (hot). Grease brown paper and lay on baking sheet.
Blend egg and cream together. Stir in Bisquick and sugar until well
blended. Turn out on surface sprinkled with Bisquick. Roll gently to
lightly coat dough. Knead 15 times. Roll into a 15x9″ rectangle. Spread
with jam. Fold in thirds lengthwise to make a 15x3″ rectangle. Cut in 1″
strips. Holding strip at both ends, twist in opposite directions twice,
forming a spiral. Place twists 1½″ apart on greased paper, pressing both
ends down. Bake _10 to 12 min._ Dust tops with confectioners’ sugar.
Remove immediately. _Makes 15._

    [Illustration: CHERRY-RAISIN COFFEE CAKE]

(_Pictured on cover._)

Make Coffee Cake batter (p. 2). Spread in greased 9″ square pan.
Sprinkle with mixture of ¼ cup brown sugar, ½ cup raisins, ¼ tsp.
cinnamon. Spoon ⅔ cup cherry jam over top. Bake _20 to 25 min._ When
still warm, frost with icing made from confectioners’ sugar and milk.
Serve warm.


                           ORANGE COFFEE CAKE

Make Coffee Cake (p. 2)—_except_ add ¾ cup orange juice in place of
milk. Before baking, top with

_Orange Caramel Topping_: Mix ¼ cup chopped nuts, ½ cup brown sugar
(packed), 1 tsp. cinnamon, 2 tbsp. softened butter, and 1 tbsp. grated
orange rind.


                             CINNAMON ROLLS

Heat oven to 425° (hot). Make Fruit Shortcake dough (p. 3). Roll into
16x7″ rectangle. Spread with 2 tbsp. soft butter. Sprinkle with mixture
of ¼ cup sugar and 1 tsp. cinnamon. Roll up tightly starting at long
side. Cut in 1″ slices. Bake on greased baking sheet, or in greased
muffin cups _15 min._ _Makes about 16 rolls._


                        BUTTERSCOTCH PECAN ROLLS

(_Pictured on cover._)

Mix ½ cup melted butter, ½ cup brown sugar (packed). Spoon into 16
muffin cups with 2 or 3 pecan halves in each. Follow recipe for Cinnamon
Rolls. Place one slice in each muffin cup.




                        _Afternoon Refreshments_


    [Illustration: NUT BREAD]

_Nicest thing you can do for tea sandwiches._

  ½ cup sugar
  1 egg
  1¼ cups milk
  3 cups Bisquick
  1½ cups chopped nuts

Heat oven to 350° (mod.). Blend first four ingredients. Beat hard 30
seconds. Stir in nuts. Pour into well greased 9×5×2½″ loaf pan. Bake _45
to 50 min._, until toothpick stuck into center comes out clean. Crack in
top is typical. Cool before slicing.


                            FRUIT NUT BREAD

Do as above, using ¾ cup sugar, and 1¼ cups orange juice in place of
milk. Reduce nuts to ¾ cup and add 1 cup raisins or chopped dried
apricots, dates, or prunes. Bake _55 to 60 min._ (Apricot Nut Bread
pictured on cover.)


                            BANANA NUT BREAD

Make Nut Bread using ¾ cup sugar and ½ cup milk. Reduce nuts to ¾ cup,
and add 1 cup mashed bananas (2 to 3).

    [Illustration: ORANGE NUT BREAD]

Make Nut Bread using ¾ cup sugar. Use 1¼ cups orange juice plus 1 tbsp.
grated orange rind instead of milk. Reduce nuts to ¾ cup. Bake _50 to 55
min._

_Neat Trick_: For dainty rounds, divide batter among 5 soup cans or 3
#303 cans, filling only half full. Bake _40 to 50 min._


                           VELVET CRUMB CAKE

  1⅓ cups Bisquick
  ¾ cup sugar
  3 tbsp. soft shortening
  1 egg
  ¾ cup milk[1]
  1 tsp. vanilla

Heat oven to 350° (mod.). Grease and flour an 8″ square or 9″ round pan.
Mix Bisquick, sugar. Add shortening, egg, ¼ cup of milk. Beat vigorously
1 min. Stir in gradually remaining milk, vanilla. Beat ½ min. Pour into
prepared pan. Bake _35 to 40 min._ Cover with Broiled Topping while
warm.

_Broiled Topping_: Mix 3 tbsp. butter, melted or softened; ⅓ cup brown
sugar (packed); 2 tbsp. cream; ½ cup Wheaties or coconut, if desired; ¼
cup chopped nuts. Spread on baked cake. Place about 3″ under broiler
(low heat) until mixture bubbles and browns (3 to 5 min.). Do not burn!
Especially good warm.


[1]In altitudes over 3,500 feet, add 2 tbsp. more milk. Bake at 375°
    (quick mod.) _25 to 30 min._


    [Illustration: PINEAPPLE STICKY BUNS]

_Perfect when the girls drop in to chat and sip._

  ¾ cup drained crushed pineapple
  ½ cup soft butter
  ½ cup brown sugar (packed)
  1 tsp. cinnamon

Heat oven to 425° (hot). Mix ingredients and divide among 12 large
greased muffin cups. Make Fruit Shortcake dough (p. 3). Spoon over
pineapple mixture. Bake _15 to 20 min._ Invert on tray or rack
immediately to prevent sticking to pans.




                             _Party Snacks_


    [Illustration: BATTER FRANKS]

_Just what teen-agers ask for—the tastiest, the heartiest, “the most.”_

  1 egg
  ½ cup milk
  1 cup Bisquick
  2 tbsp. yellow corn meal
  ¼ tsp. paprika
  ½ tsp. dry mustard
  ⅛ tsp. cayenne
  1 lb. frankfurters (8 to 10)

Heat deep fat to 375°. Blend egg and milk. Stir in dry ingredients. Dip
frankfurters into batter. Fry until brown, 2 to 3 min.

_Neat Trick:_ Push wooden skewer into end of Batter Frank for eating
with fingers.

    [Illustration: BAKED HAMBURGER OR SAUSAGE]

Heat oven to 400° (mod. hot). Season ½ lb. hamburger or bulk pork
sausage with desired amounts of salt, pepper, and chopped onion. Shape
into 2½″ patties. Brown in hot fat. Make Fruit Shortcake dough (p. 3
)—_except_ omit sugar. Roll out ⅛″ thick. Cut into 3″ rounds. Place each
browned patty between 2 rounds. Press edges together with fork. Prick
tops. Bake on baking sheet _about 15 min._ Serve hot as a finger food or
with tomato sauce. _6 servings._


                           VELVET FUDGE CAKE

_Gooey and rich with frosting baked in the middle._

Make Velvet Crumb Cake (p. 12)—_except_ add ⅓ cup cocoa with the
Bisquick. Pour half of batter into greased and floured 8″ square pan.
Spread with half of Topping. Cover with remaining batter. Bake.
Immediately spread with rest of Topping. Serve warm.

_Topping:_ Mix ½ cup (½ pkg.) semi-sweet chocolate pieces, melted, ⅓ cup
water, 2 cups finely chopped coconut.

    [Illustration: PIZZA BOATS]

Heat oven to 400° (mod. hot). Make Fruit Shortcake dough (p. 3). Roll
into 15x6″ rectangle. Cut into ten 3″ squares. Place half a wiener, a
strip of cheese the same size, and 2 tsp. chili sauce or catsup on each
square. Fasten sides of boat to wiener with toothpicks. Bake _15 to 20
min._

    [Illustration: BROWNIE NUT WAFFLES]

Make Waffles (p. 2)—_except_ add ½ cup sugar, 2 sq. unsweetened
chocolate (2 oz.), melted, and ½ cup chopped nuts to batter. Serve with
whipped cream or ice cream, or dust with confectioners’ sugar.


                               PIZZA PIE

_Amaze your guests with an Italian dish as real as if you’d ordered it
from Italy. (Pictured on cover.)_

  2 cups Bisquick
  ½ cup water
  ½ cup grated Parmesan cheese
  1½ to 2 cups well drained cooked tomatoes or 1 small can tomato sauce
  ½ lb. nippy cheese, cut in small pieces
  one or two 2-oz. cans anchovies, chopped, or 1 can sardines, flaked,
          or 1 cup chopped salami
  pepper
  2 tbsp. cooking (salad) oil
  ½ med. onion, grated

Heat oven to 425° (hot). Mix Bisquick and water. Knead about 1 min. on
surface dusted with Bisquick. Roll into a circle ¼” thick. Place on
baking sheet. Pinch edge of dough to make slight rim. Arrange other
ingredients on dough in order listed. Bake _20 to 25 min._ Serve in
wedges.

    [Illustration: CHEESE SNACKS]

_Nippy tidbits to nibble on._

  1 cup Bisquick
  ½ cup grated sharp yellow cheese
  2 tbsp. mayonnaise
  about ⅓ cup milk
  ½ cup chopped parsley or chives
  1 tbsp. grated onion

Heat oven to 450° (hot). Blend thoroughly with fork Bisquick, cheese,
mayonnaise, and milk. Shape into ½″ balls. Roll in mixture of parsley
and onion. Bake on greased baking sheet _8 to 10 min._ _Makes about 30._


                         CINNAMON BISCUIT BALLS

Heat oven to 450° (hot). Make Biscuit dough (p. 3). Shape into small
balls and roll in mixture of 2 tbsp. sugar and 1 tsp. cinnamon. Bake on
lightly greased baking sheet _8 to 10 min._ _Makes about 2 doz.
biscuits._


                               FLAVORTOPS

_Serve them hot and tasty, sitting pretty on the salad plate._

  1 tbsp. chopped pimiento
  1 tbsp. chopped parsley
  2 tsp. minced onion
  2 tbsp. butter
  3-oz. pkg. cream cheese

Heat oven to 450° (hot). Blend ingredients and spread over top of
unbaked Biscuits (p. 3). Bake _10 to 15 min._ _Makes 16 small or 8 large
biscuits._

    [Illustration: DEVILED HAM TURNOVERS]

Heat oven to 450° (hot). Make Biscuit or Fruit Shortcake dough (p. 3).
Roll into 15″ square on surface lightly dusted with Bisquick. Cut into
twenty-five 3″ squares. Place on ungreased baking sheet. Spoon a little
Ham Filling onto center of each square. Make triangle by folding one
half over the other so top edge slightly overlaps. Press edges together
with a fork dipped in cold water. Bake _8 to 10 min._

_Ham Filling:_ Blend two 2¼-oz. cans deviled ham and 2 tbsp. cream.




                              MAIN DISHES
                         _For Lunch or Supper_


    [Illustration: ROLL-UPS]

_Leftovers are “loved-overs” when you have your Bisquick._

Heat oven to 425° (hot). Mix 2 cups chopped cooked chicken, ham, veal,
beef, lamb, or sea food with about ½ cup gravy or White Sauce (p. 16).
Make Biscuit dough (p. 3). Roll into 18x9″ rectangle. Spread with meat.
Roll up beginning at wide side. Seal edges. Slice 1½″ thick. Place
slices in well greased pan (close together for soft sides, apart for
crusty sides). Bake _15 to 20 min._ Serve with gravy or sauce. _Makes
12._


                           HAMBURGER ROLL-UPS

Follow recipe above—_except_ spread dough with Hamburger Filling (sauté
1 med. onion, chopped, in 1 tbsp. hot fat; stir in 1 lb. ground round
steak and cook until well browned; mix in 3 tbsp. Bisquick, ½ tsp. salt,
dash of pepper; gradually add ½ cup milk, stirring constantly; boil 1
min., cool). Serve with mushroom sauce.


                             SEA FOOD ROLL

Follow recipe above—_except_ use any sea food and do not cut roll in
slices. Put sealed edge down on greased baking sheet or pan. Cut slits
in top. Bake. Cut into thick slices. Serve with White Sauce (p. 16) to
which cut-up hard-cooked eggs, sliced olives, or sautéed mushrooms have
been added. Or use condensed cream of mushroom soup diluted with ½ cup
milk, heated, for sauce.


                          BAKED MEAT SANDWICH

_Known in Italy as cavatzone, a treat by either name. (Pictured on
inside of back cover.)_

  1 lb. ground lean pork
  ½ cup chopped onion
  ¼ cup grated Parmesan cheese
  ½ cup grated Swiss cheese
  1 large egg, beaten
  ¼ tsp. Tabasco sauce
  1½ tsp. salt
  2 tbsp. minced parsley

Heat oven to 400° (mod. hot). Cook pork and onion over low heat until no
longer pink. (Do not brown. Stir with fork to break up as it cooks.)
Cool. Mix rest of ingredients. Add ¼ cup mayonnaise to Biscuit dough (p.
3). Spread half of dough in well greased 8″ square pan. Spread with meat
mixture. With fingers, spread rest of dough over mixture. (The top will
even out during baking.) Brush with beaten egg yolk for crusty glaze.
Bake _25 to 30 min._ Cut in squares or in ½” slices and serve hot or
cold.


                               TV SUPPER

Baked Meat Sandwich, Tossed Green Salad, Orange Sherbet.


                            MEAT SHORT PIES

Heat oven to 450° (hot). Make your favorite cooked chicken or meat pie
filling. Spoon into oblong casserole or individual baking dishes. Make
Short Pie dough (p. 8). Divide into 6 parts. With palm of hand flatten
each part into 3 to 4″ rounds on baking sheet. Prick with fork. Bake
_about 8 min._ When serving, set baked rounds on hot filling. _6
servings._




                          WAFFLES AND PANCAKES




_A good (and easy!) way to stir up excitement at lunch or supper._
                                                         _Betty Crocker_

    [Illustration: CHICKEN GRIDDLECAKES]

_Mighty special for your favorite friends, too._

Make Pancakes (p. 2), using about ½ cup batter for each pancake. Spoon ¼
cup Creamed Chicken (recipe below) onto half of each pancake. Fold over.
Place on baking sheet. Sprinkle with grated sharp yellow cheese ...
about 1 tbsp. for each cake. Place under broiler or in oven to melt
cheese. _8 servings._

    [Illustration: WHITE SAUCE]

  ¼ cup butter
  ¼ cup Bisquick
  ½ tsp. salt
  ¼ tsp. pepper
  2 cups milk

Melt butter over low heat. Blend in Bisquick, seasonings. Cook over low
heat, stirring until smooth and bubbly. Take from heat. Stir in milk.
Bring to boil; boil 1 min., stirring constantly.


                              CHEESE SAUCE

Stir in 2 cups grated sharp cheese.


                            CREAMED CHICKEN

Carefully stir in 1 tbsp. lemon juice, 2 cups cut-up cooked chicken, ½
cup sliced mushrooms sautéed in butter, and 2 tbsp. chopped pimiento.


                    ONION PANCAKES WITH BEEF CRUMBLE

_Don’t spare the onion, and make lots of Beef Crumble._

Make Pancakes (p. 2)—_except_ add 1 cup minced onion sautéed in 2 tbsp.
hot fat. Serve piping hot with

_Beef Crumble and Gravy:_ Brown ½ lb. ground beef and ¼ cup minced onion
in 2 tbsp. hot fat. Add 1 tsp. salt, ½ tsp. pepper, ¼ cup Bisquick.
Continue browning. Slowly stir in ½ cup milk and 2 cups water.


                           WAFFLE CLUB RABBIT

Make Waffles (p. 2). Top each one with a slice or more of fresh tomato.
Spoon Cheese Sauce (above) over, then garnish with strips of crisp
bacon.

    [Illustration: WAFFLE SUPPER ROYAL]

Heat 1½ cups whole-berry cranberry sauce until warm. Make Waffles (p. 2
). Serve 2 sections of waffle sandwich-style with Creamed Chicken
(above) between. Top with warm cranberry sauce. _6 to 8 servings._




_Are you a Twosome?_ Most of the recipes in this book can be cut in half
for 3 servings.




                         _For Lunch or Supper_
                                 BREADS




_The biscuit’s the thing—so choose your flavor and make them in just
minutes._
                                                         _Betty Crocker_


                            CHEESE BISCUITS

_Just this little touch makes lunch an event._

Make Biscuits (p. 3)—_except_ mix ½ cup grated sharp yellow American
cheese with the Bisquick.


                             BACON BISCUITS

Make Biscuits (p. 3)—_except_ mix ⅓ cup drained crisply cooked bacon
bits (about 4 strips) with the Bisquick.


                              BACON WHIRLS

Heat oven to 425° (hot). Make Biscuit dough (p. 3). Roll into 16x7″
rectangle. Brush with bacon fat. Spread with ⅓ cup diced crisply cooked
bacon. Roll up tightly, beginning at wide side. Seal edge. Slice 1″
thick. Place on ungreased baking sheet or in muffin cups. Brush tops
with bacon fat. Bake _10 min._ _Makes 16._




_Neat Trick_: How does your family like biscuits:

Crusty Sides? Place biscuits on baking sheet with spaces between.

Soft Sides? Place biscuits close together on baking sheet or in pan.


                             DROP BISCUITS

Heat oven to 450° (hot). Make Biscuit dough (p. 3). Drop with spoon on
greased baking sheet. Bake _10 to 15 min._


                                WHUFFINS

Make richer Muffins (p. 2)—_except_ fold 1½ cups Wheaties carefully into
batter.


                              LONDON BUNS

_Fruity little muffins for lunch or tea._

Make richer Muffins (p. 2)—_except_ add 1 cup raisins or currants and ½
cup candied fruit (3 oz.) to batter.


                            CELERY CRESCENTS

Heat oven to 450° (hot). Make Biscuits (p. 3). Roll into 12 to 13″
circle. Brush lightly with melted butter. Cut into 16 pie-shaped wedges.
Roll up tightly beginning at wide end. Place on baking sheet, point
underneath. Shape into crescents. Brush tops with melted butter.
Sprinkle with celery seeds and a little salt. Bake _10 to 12 min._
_Makes 16._


                      HOT PIMIENTO CHEESE BISCUITS

Make Biscuits (p. 3). Lay sliced pimiento cheese on top of hot baked
biscuits and return to oven for cheese to melt, about 5 min.


                             FAVORITE LUNCH

                           Hot Vegetable Soup
                            Cheese Biscuits
                               Applesauce
                   1-2-3 Peanut Butter Cookies (p. 19)




                                DESSERTS


                             RANCH PUDDING

_Makes its own butterscotch sauce as it bakes._

  2 cups brown sugar (packed)
  2½ cups water
  2 tbsp. butter
  ½ cup milk
  1¼ cups Bisquick
  1 cup raisins or chopped dates
  ½ to 1 cup chopped nuts
  1 tsp. vanilla

Heat oven to 350° (mod.). Mix in saucepan 1 cup brown sugar, water,
butter. Boil 5 min. Pour into 8″ square pan. Mix in bowl, 1 cup brown
sugar, milk, Bisquick, raisins or dates, nuts, vanilla. Spoon batter on
top of sugar mixture. It will sink into the liquid and spread out as it
bakes. Bake _45 min._ Serve warm with plain or whipped cream. _9
servings._

    [Illustration: APPLE OR PEACH CRISP]

  4 cups sliced peeled apples or peaches or no. 2½ can peaches, drained
  2 tbsp. water
  ¼ to ⅓ cup sugar (depending on tartness of fruit)
  1¼ cups Bisquick
  ½ cup sugar
  ½ tsp. cinnamon
  1 egg, beaten

Heat oven to 400° (mod. hot). Place fruit in greased 10x6″ baking dish.
Sprinkle with water and sugar. Mix Bisquick, sugar, cinnamon and pour
egg on slowly, stirring constantly until crumbly. Sprinkle over fruit.
Dot with butter. Bake _about 25 min._ until brown. Serve hot or cold
with milk or cream. _6 to 8 servings._

    [Illustration: CHOCOLATE PUDDING]

  ½ cup Bisquick
  ¾ cup sugar
  ⅓ cup cocoa
  1 cup cold water
  2 cups milk
  1 tsp. vanilla

Mix Bisquick, sugar, cocoa. Gradually stir in water and milk. Bring to
boil over medium heat; boil 1 min. Add vanilla. Pour into sherbet
glasses. Sprinkle with sugar. Cool. Top with whipped cream. _6
servings._

    [Illustration: UPSIDE-DOWN CAKE]

_Velvet Crumb is a favorite right side up and a double favorite upside
down._

Heat oven to 350° (mod.). Melt 2 tbsp. butter in 8″ square pan or 9″
round layer pan. Sprinkle with ¼ cup brown sugar. Arrange over sugar
mixture fresh or well drained canned fruit (peach slices, pineapple
slices or chunks, or apricot halves). Make Velvet Crumb Cake batter (p.
12). Pour over fruit. _Bake 35 to 40 min._, until toothpick stuck in
center comes out clean. Invert at once on serving plate. Leave pan over
cake a minute. Serve warm with plain or whipped cream.

_Neat Trick:_ Dazzle the family with different designs on your
upside-down cakes.




                              EASY COOKIES


                         CHOCOLATE CHIP COOKIES

_All-time favorites for the cooky jar._

  ¼ cup soft butter
  ¾ cup brown sugar (packed)
  1 egg
  1½ cups Bisquick
  ½ cup chopped nuts
  6-oz. pkg. semi-sweet chocolate pieces or one or two candy bars cut in
          small pieces

Heat oven to 375° (quick mod.). Mix well butter, sugar, egg. Stir in
Bisquick, nuts, chocolate pieces. Drop with teaspoon 2″ apart on
ungreased baking sheet. Bake _about 10 min._ until light brown. _Makes 3
doz._


                         CHOCOLATE DROP COOKIES

Use granulated sugar in place of brown, omit chocolate pieces, and blend
in 2 sq. unsweetened chocolate (2 oz.), melted. Do not overbake.


                          COCONUT ORANGE DROPS

Omit chocolate; blend in 1 cup shredded coconut and 1 tbsp. grated
orange rind. Do not overbake.

    [Illustration: DATE BARS]

_Nice as mother used to make—easier and quicker, too._

  ¼ cup butter
  ¾ cup sugar
  1 egg
  1⅓ Cups Bisquick
  ½ cup chopped nuts
  1 cup cut-up dates

Heat oven to 350° (mod.). Mix thoroughly butter, sugar, egg. Stir in
Bisquick, nuts, dates. Bake _25 min._ in greased 8″ square pan. Cool
about 1 hr. Cut in bars. Roll in confectioners’ sugar.


                      1-2-3 PEANUT BUTTER COOKIES

  1 cup peanut butter
  ¼ cup shortening
  1 cup granulated sugar or brown
  sugar (packed)
  ½ cup boiling water
  2 cups Bisquick

Heat oven to 400° (mod. hot). Blend peanut butter, shortening, sugar,
water with rotary beater or spoon until smooth. Stir in Bisquick. Drop
small teaspoonfuls on lightly greased baking sheet. Flatten with bottom
of glass dipped in Bisquick or press with fork dipped in Bisquick. Bake
_8 to 10 min._ _Makes about 6½ doz._


                           “PUDDING COOKIES”

  ¾ cup Bisquick
  1 pkg. instant pudding mix
  ¼ cup cooking (salad) oil
  1 egg

Heat oven to 350° (mod.). Mix ingredients until dough forms a ball.
Shape into balls, using 1 teaspoon dough for each ball. Place on
ungreased baking sheet. Flatten to about 2” with hand. Bake _8 min._
_Makes 2½ to 3 doz._


                       BISQUICK-WHEATIES SQUARES

  2 eggs, beaten
  1¼ cups brown sugar (packed)
  ½ tsp. vanilla
  1 cup Bisquick
  ½ cup chopped nuts
  ½ cup shredded coconut, if desired
  1 cup Wheaties

Heat oven to 350° (mod.). Grease a 9″ square pan. Blend thoroughly eggs,
brown sugar, vanilla, Bisquick. Mix in nuts, coconut. Fold in Wheaties.
Spread in pan. Bake _30 to 35 min._ Cut in 2″ squares while warm. _Makes
16._




                            _For Breakfast_
                           PANCAKES & WAFFLES




_These are frankly fancy—for just good plain pancakes see p. 2._
                                                         _Betty Crocker_


                             PUFF PANCAKES

  2 eggs
  1 cup milk
  2⅓ cups Bisquick
  2 tbsp. sugar
  ¼ cup cooking (salad) oil or melted shortening

Beat eggs until soft peaks form. Blend in milk. Add Bisquick and sugar.
Mix just until thoroughly dampened. Fold in oil. Spoon onto medium-hot
griddle. Grease griddle, if necessary. When puffed up, and bubbles begin
to break, cook on other side. _Makes 15 to 20._


                              PUFF WAFFLES

_Follow recipe above—except bake in preheated waffle baker._

_Neat Trick:_ Serve Puff Pancakes or Waffles for dessert topped with
fruit and whipped cream.


                         WAFFLES WITH PINEAPPLE

_Perfect match for smoked ham._

  2 cups crushed pineapple (#2 can)
  ¼ cup brown sugar (packed)
  2 tbsp. butter

Mix pineapple, sugar, butter. Bring to boil, then simmer 3 min. Add a
little water if too thick. Spoon warm over crisp baked Waffles (p. 2).




P.S. Griddle is right temperature for baking when a few drops of water
sprinkled on it jump around.


                     BLUEBERRY PANCAKES OR WAFFLES

_Topped with honey or hard sauce they double for dessert._

Make Pancakes or Waffles (p. 2)—_except_ add 2 tbsp. sugar to the
batter; then gently fold in 1 cup fresh, or drained frozen or canned
blueberries. Dust with confectioners’ sugar.

    [Illustration: SILVER DOLLAR PANCAKES]

_How to be special to the children._

Make Pancake batter (p. 2). Thin with a little milk. Then spoon out a
tablespoon at a time to fill your griddle with tiny mouthfuls of “silver
dollar” pancakes. Serve several on each plate.

    [Illustration: BACON WAFFLES]

Lay short strips of bacon over grids of heated waffle iron. Close and
bake about 1 min. Make Waffle batter (p. 2)—_except_ omit shortening.
Spoon batter over bacon. Bake.

    [Illustration: PECAN PANCAKES AND WAFFLES]

Add ¾ to 1 cup finely chopped pecans to Pancake or Waffle batter (p. 2).
Bake. Serve with syrup or ice cream.

    [Illustration: SAUSAGE ROLLS WITH MAPLE GLAZE]

Make Pancakes (p. 2). Roll a fried pork sausage link in each pancake.
Top with


                              MAPLE GLAZE

  1 cup maple or maple-flavored syrup
  1 tbsp. butter
  2 tbsp. cream

Mix and cook gently without stirring until slightly thickened (_about 5
min._).


                             SPICY PANCAKES

_Keep these in mind for dessert, too._

Add 1 tsp. cinnamon, ½ tsp. _each_ allspice, cloves, and nutmeg to
Pancake batter (p. 2). Bake. Serve with Spiced Cherry Sauce.


                          SPICED CHERRY SAUCE

  ¾ cup sugar
  3 tbsp. cornstarch
  ¼ tsp. cinnamon
  ⅛ tsp. salt
  1 cup chopped fresh cherries (or #2 can)
  1 tbsp. strained lemon juice
  1 cup juice from cherries or water

Mix sugar, cornstarch, cinnamon, salt in saucepan. Add rest of
ingredients. Bring to boil, stirring constantly. Boil 1 min. Serve hot
over plain or Spicy Pancakes (above).

    [Illustration: APPLE PANCAKES]

Add 2 cups grated unpeeled apple, 1 tbsp. lemon juice, and 2 tbsp. sugar
to Pancake batter (p. 2). Bake. Serve with syrup.


                           TROPICAL PANCAKES

Make Pancakes (p. 2). Top each stack with a pineapple slice. Serve with
fresh orange syrup made by boiling together until slightly thickened 1
cup orange juice, ⅓ cup sugar, and ¼ cup water.


                          SOUR CREAM PANCAKES

Make Pancakes (p. 2)—_except_ use 1 cup water and ⅔ cup sour cream in
place of milk.


                     CORN MEAL PANCAKES OR WAFFLES

Make Pancakes or Waffles (p. 2)—_except_ use ½ cup corn meal in place of
½ cup of the Bisquick.




_Neat Trick_: To use up Leftover Pancake Batter:

_French Toast_: Dip slices of day-old or stale bread in leftover batter.
Sauté in hot shallow fat until brown, turn and brown on other side.
Serve with syrup or jelly and confectioners’ sugar.

_Meat Mates_: Dip apple rings, pineapple slices, cooked baby carrots, or
cooked parsnips in leftover batter. Sauté as above.




                           HOT FROM THE OVEN


    [Illustration: BUTTONS AND BOWKNOTS]

_Like doughnuts but you twist them and bake them—the holes, too._

  2 cups Bisquick
  2 tbsp. sugar
  1 tsp. nutmeg
  ⅛ tsp. cinnamon
  ⅔ cup cream or top milk or ½ cup milk
  1 egg

Heat oven to 400° (mod. hot). Mix Bisquick, sugar, spices. Add cream,
egg. Mix well. Dust hands and board lightly with Bisquick. Knead 2 or 3
times. Keep dough soft.

Roll out ½″ thick. Cut with doughnut cutter dipped in Bisquick. Save
“holes” to bake. Hold opposite sides of ring with fingers, twist to make
figure 8. Pat scraps together, reroll and cut. Place on baking sheet.
Bake _10 to 12 min._, until golden brown. Melt ¼ cup butter. Measure ½
cup sugar into small bowl. Immediately after baking, dip each quickly in
butter, then in sugar, coating all sides. Serve warm. _Makes about 10._


                               SUGAR BUNS

Spoon above dough into greased muffin cups, filling each ½ full. Bake
_about 15 min._ Dip in butter and sugar.


                    BUTTERSCOTCH-DATE-PECAN MUFFINS

(_Pictured on cover._)

Drop into each of 12 greased medium muffin cups ½ tbsp. butter, ½ tbsp.
brown sugar, 2 or 3 pecan halves. Fold 1 cup cut-up dates into Muffin
batter (p. 2). Spoon into prepared muffin cups. Bake.


                          BACON-CHEESE MUFFINS

Make Muffin batter (p. 2)—_except_ fold in 2 tbsp. crisp, cooked diced
bacon and ½ cup grated, sharp, yellow cheese. Bake.


                PRUNE, APRICOT, OR PINEAPPLE COFFEE CAKE

Make Coffee Cake batter (p. 2)—_except_ sprinkle 2 tbsp. melted butter
and ¼ cup white or brown sugar over batter (for prune topping, use ¾
tsp. cinnamon). Arrange over top 1 cup chopped, drained cooked prunes or
apricots or 1 cup drained crushed pineapple. Bake. Serve hot.

    [Illustration: BANANA COFFEE CAKE]

Make Coffee Cake batter (p. 2)—except add 1 cup mashed, fully ripe
bananas in place of milk. Bake.


                           LEMON COFFEE CAKE

Make Coffee Cake batter (p. 2). Melt 1 tbsp. butter. Mix in ½ cup sugar
and 1 tbsp. grated lemon rind. Sprinkle over batter. Bake _25 min._




                          COOKING FOR A CROWD




_Big things to do easily and quickly when you’re helping at church
suppers, school banquets, club meetings, weddings, or summer camp._
                                                         _Betty Crocker_

    [Illustration: BISCUITS]

  FOR 60 MEDIUM. Serves 30.
    10 cups Bisquick (40-oz. pkg. or 2 20-oz. pkg.)
    3⅓ cups milk
  FOR 100 MEDIUM. Serves 50.
    17 cups Bisquick
    5⅔ cups milk

Follow directions for Biscuits (p. 3).

_Neat Trick:_ In a hurry? Simply pat out biscuit dough on baking sheet.
Cut in squares with sharp knife. Quick! No scraps!


                             FRUIT COBBLER

Heat oven to 400° (mod. hot). Make biscuit dough, adding 1 tbsp. sugar
for each cup of Bisquick. Drop by spoonfuls on hot prepared fruit. Bake
_20 min._


                                PANCAKES

  FOR 60 PANCAKES. Serves 15.
    10 cups Bisquick (40-oz. pkg. or 2 20-oz. pkg.)
    8⅓ cups milk
    5 eggs
  FOR 100 PANCAKES. Serves 25.
    17 cups Bisquick
    3 qt. + 2 cups milk
    8 eggs

Add milk and eggs to Bisquick. Beat with rotary beater until smooth.
Follow baking directions on p. 2.

    [Illustration: VELVET CRUMB CAKE]

  2⅔ cups Bisquick
  1½ cups sugar
  6 tbsp. soft shortening
  2 eggs
  1½ cups milk[2]
  2 tsp. vanilla

Follow mixing directions on p. 12. Bake in 13x9½x2″ oblong baking pan
_35 to 40 min._ Cover with Broiled Topping while warm. _Makes 24 2″
squares._

_Broiled Topping_: Mix ⅓ cup soft butter, ⅔ cup brown sugar (packed), ¼
cup cream, 1 cup Wheaties or coconut, ½ cup chopped nuts. Spread on warm
cake. Place about 3″ under broiler (low heat) until mixture bubbles and
browns (3 to 5 min.). Do not burn!


[2]In altitudes over 3,500 feet, add ¼ cup more milk. Bake at 375°
    (quick mod.) _25 to 30 min._




                     BACON AND SAUSAGE THE EASY WAY

Bake bacon or pork sausages in 400° (mod. hot) oven. More can be done at
one time, there’s no need to watch, and the top of the range is free for
other things. Bacon takes _10 min._, pork sausages _20 to 30 min._,
turning once.




                           _Outdoor Cooking_
                             OVER THE FIRE




_Everybody’s cooking outdoors, and these ideas will work perfectly,
whether you’re camping out or cooking in the backyard._
                                                         _Betty Crocker_

    [Illustration: STICK BISCUITS]

_An age-old way to make hot biscuits._

Pour several cups of Bisquick into plastic bag. Roll down sides to make
cuff. Take end of long, peeled stick (thickness of little finger) and
push away Bisquick in center to make a well. Pour in about 1 tbsp. milk
or water. Stir gently with stick until liquid picks up enough Bisquick
to form soft ball around end of stick (about 1″ across). Secure ball on
stick by pressing gently with hand. Hold stick over coals, turning
slowly to bake ball through and brown evenly (_about 7 min._). Eat
piping hot with butter, jam, or jelly.


                              STICK TWISTS

Make ball of dough as above. Dust hands generously with Bisquick. Slip
ball from stick. Roll between palms into a 4 or 5″ strip. Wind strip
spirally around end of stick, pinching tightly at ends to secure. Bake
as above (_about 5 min._). Slip off stick. Fill center with strip of
cheese or cooked meat or spoon in jelly, jam, or honey. Eat piping hot.


                             CHEESE TOPPERS

Follow directions for Stick Biscuits—_except_ secure a ¾″ cube of cheese
on end of stick. Finish as directed. Also good with canned meat.

    [Illustration: FLAPJACKS]

_Big-size version Pancakes (p. 2). Fit them into out-door appetites with
exciting flavors._

1. Follow suggestions for Apple or Corn Meal Pancakes (p. 21) or
      Blueberry Pancakes (p. 20).

2. Layer a stack of Flapjacks with jelly or jam, cut into quarters to
      serve 4.

3. Add 1 cup drained whole kernel or fresh corn to batter.


                              HUSH PUPPIES

_An old-time favorite in the Deep South now brought up to date._

Mix 1 cup corn meal, 1 cup Bisquick, 1 tsp. salt, 1 egg, and 1 cup milk.
Drop with spoon into hot fat, fry until golden brown on both sides,
turning only once. Serve hot. _Makes 15 to 20._


                            DOG-IN-A-BISCUIT

Form Stick Twists as directed at left. Wind strip of dough around
roasted frankfurter or fried pork sausage, stretching to cover
completely. Finish same as for Stick Twists.

_Neat Trick:_ For the crispiest coating you ever tasted, roll fresh
fish, sea food, chicken, or meat generously in Bisquick. Fry in a small
amount of fat until golden brown on both sides. Turn only once.




                           BAKED IN THE OVEN




_Carry these good things from the kitchen into your own back yard or try
them at camp. (Never go on a camping trip without your box of
Bisquick!)_
                                                         _Betty Crocker_

    [Illustration: MEAT TURNOVERS]

Mix thoroughly 2 cups Bisquick, ½ cup milk or water, ¼ cup melted
shortening or drippings. If batter is too soft, add Bisquick. Divide
into 8 pieces. Pat out to make 5” square. Place slice of cooked or
canned meat on half of square. Spread with chili sauce or pickle relish.
Fold dough over meat and seal edges with fork. Slit top. Bake _15 to 20
min._ in hot oven.

_Neat Trick:_ Put 1 piece of dough at a time in plastic bag dusted
generously with Bisquick. Pat between hands to make a 5” square. To
remove, gradually turn bag inside out, loosening dough from sides with
dull knife.

    [Illustration: CRISPY CORN BREAD]

Make Muffin batter (p. 2)—_except_ add ¾ cup corn meal and use only 1¼
cups Bisquick. Turn batter into sizzling hot pan. Bake _about 15 min._
in hot oven until brown and crusty.


                        BLUEBERRY TRAIL BISCUITS

Make Drop Biscuits (p. 17)—_except_ add 1 cup blueberries and 2 tbsp.
sugar to dough.


                      CAMPFIRE STEW WITH DUMPLINGS

Use canned or homemade stew. Make Dumplings (p. 2).


                          SWEET CINNAMON ROLLS

Make Biscuit dough (p. 3). Drop small spoonfuls into mixture of cinnamon
and sugar. Roll to coat surface. Bake _8 to 10 min._ in hot oven. _Makes
24._


                            FRUIT DUMPLINGS

Heat no. 2 can canned berries or fruit (2½ cups) to boiling. Sweeten
fruit, if necessary. Then make half recipe for Dumplings (p. 2) and cook
on fruit.


                         NEIGHBORHOOD BARBECUE

                             Meat Turnovers
                              Baked Beans
                    Sliced Bermuda Onions, Tomatoes
                        Velvet Crumb Cake (p. 12)
                                 Coffee




                         A NOTE FROM THE AUTHOR

When you use our Bisquick recipes you can be sure each baking will be
easy to do and good to eat. That’s because after careful testing in our
kitchens hundreds of homemakers have tried them in their own home
kitchens and served them to their families.

Only the recipes rated tops by homemakers are passed along to you.
That’s why I know you’ll be happy with every one!

                                                         _Betty Crocker_




                                 INDEX


  *Basic Bakings                                                     2-3
  (Also on your Bisquick box)
  Dinner                                                             4-8
  Company’s Coming                                                  9-14
  Lunch or Supper                                                  15-19
  Breakfast                                                        20-22
  Cooking for a Crowd                                                 23
  Outdoor Cooking                                                  24-25
  BREADS
  Bacon Whirls                                                        17
  *Biscuits                                                        3, 23
      Bacon                                                           17
      Blueberry Trail                                                 25
      Broccoli                                                         6
      Buttermilk                                                       4
      Cheese                                                          17
      Dinner                                                           4
      Drop                                                            17
      Herb                                                             4
      Hot Pimiento Cheese                                             17
      Stick                                                           24
  Breakfast Ring                                                      10
  Butter Sticks                                                        4
  Buttons and Bow Knots                                               22
  Celery Crescents                                                    17
  Cheese Bread                                                         4
  Cheese Snacks                                                       14
  Cheese Toppers                                                      24
  Cinnamon Biscuit Balls                                              14
  *Coffee Cake                                                         2
      Banana                                                          22
      Cherry-Raisin                                                   11
      Lemon                                                           22
      Orange                                                          11
      Prune, Apricot, or Pineapple                                    22
      Streusel Ribbon                                                 11
  Corn Sticks                                                          4
  Crispy Corn Bread                                                   25
  Doughnuts                                                           10
  *Dumplings                                                           2
  Flavortops                                                          14
  French Toast                                                        21
  Hush Puppies                                                        24
  Jam Twists                                                          11
  London Buns                                                         17
  *Muffins                                                             2
      Bacon-Cheese                                                    22
      Butterscotch-Date-Pecan                                         22
      Corn                                                             4
      Cranberry                                                        4
      Herb                                                             4
      Whuffins                                                        17
  Nut Bread                                                           12
      Banana                                                          12
      Fruit                                                           12
      Orange                                                          12
  *Pancakes                                                        2, 23
      Apple                                                           21
      Blueberry                                                       20
      Colonial Jelly Stack                                            10
      Corn                                                            24
      Corn Meal                                                       21
      Flapjacks                                                       24
      Jelly                                                           24
      Onion                                                           16
      Pecan                                                           20
      Puff                                                            20
      Sausage Rolls with Maple Glaze                                  21
      Silver Dollar                                                   20
      Sour Cream                                                      21
      Spicy                                                           21
      Swedish                                                         10
      Tropical                                                        21
  Pineapple Sticky Buns                                               12
  Rolls
      Butterscotch Pecan                                              11
      Cinnamon                                                        11
      Quick Parkerhouse                                                4
      Sweet Cinnamon Rolls                                            25
  Stick Twists                                                        24
  Sugar Buns                                                          22
  *Waffles                                                             2
      Bacon                                                           20
      Blueberry                                                       20
      Brownie Nut                                                     13
      Corn Meal                                                       21
      Pecan                                                           20
      Puff                                                            20
      Waffle Club Rabbit                                              16
      Waffle Supper Royal                                             16
      Waffles with Pineapple                                          20
  CAKES
  Date Velvet Crumb Cake                                               9
  Upside-down Cake                                                    18
  Velvet Crumb Cake                                               12, 23
  Velvet Fudge Cake                                                   13
  COOKIES
  Bisquick-Wheaties Squares                                           19
  Chocolate Chip Cookies                                              19
  Chocolate Drop Cookies                                              19
  Coconut Orange Drops                                                19
  Date Bars                                                           19
  1-2-3 Peanut Butter Cookies                                         19
  “Pudding” Cookies                                                   19
  DESSERTS
  Apple or Peach Crisp                                                18
  Chocolate Pudding                                                   18
  Fruit Cobbler                                                       23
  Fruit Dumplings                                                     25
  Fruit Short Pie Cobbler                                              8
  *Fruit Shortcake                                                     3
  Hot Fudge Pudding                                                    8
  Peach Pinwheels                                                      8
  Ranch Pudding                                                       18
  Short Pie                                                            8
      Strawberry Glacé                                                 9
      Sundae                                                           8
  MAIN DISHES
  Baked Bacon or Sausage                                              23
  Baked Hamburger or Sausage Sandwich                                 13
  Baked Meat Sandwich                                                 15
  Batter Franks                                                       13
  Bisquick Noodles                                                     7
  Breaded Meat, Chicken or Fish                                        7
  Campfire Stew with Dumplings                                        25
  Chicken and Biscuits, Oven-crisp                                     6
  Chicken Griddlecakes                                                16
  Chicken Pie                                                          6
  Chicken Pot Pie                                                      5
      Double                                                           5
  Coating Fish or Meat                                                24
  Corn and Shrimp Casserole                                            5
  Crispy Fried Fish                                                    6
  Deviled Ham Turnovers                                               14
  Dog-in-a-Biscuit                                                    24
  Fritters                                                             7
  Hamburger Roll-ups                                                  15
  Meat Pie                                                             6
  Meat Short Pies                                                     15
  Meat Turnovers                                                      25
  Mexican Dinner                                                       7
  Pizza Boats                                                         13
  Pizza Pie                                                           14
  Pork and Dumplings, Favorite                                         5
  Roll-ups                                                            15
  Salmon Rabbit Pie                                                    5
  Sea Food Roll                                                       15
  Shortcakes
      Asparagus                                                        9
      Ring-topped Chicken                                              9
      Tomato                                                           9
  Shrimp, Batter Fried                                                 7
  Soufflés
      Cheese                                                           9
      Chicken                                                          9
      Salmon                                                           9
      Tuna                                                             9
  Tuna Broccoli Casserole                                              6
  SAUCES AND GRAVIES
  Beef Crumble and Gravy                                              16
  Cheese Sauce                                                        16
  Creamed Chicken                                                     16
  Spiced Cherry Sauce                                                 21
  White Sauce                                                         16
  MENUS
  Dinner                                                            4, 6
  Favorite Lunch                                                      17
  Neighborhood Barbecue                                               25
  Sunday Brunch                                                       10
  TV Supper                                                           15

    [Illustration: Biscuits    Page 3]

    [Illustration: Brownie Nut Waffle    Page 13]

    [Illustration: Cheese Soufflé    Page 9]

    [Illustration: Butter Sticks    Page 4]

    [Illustration: Fritters    Page 7]

    [Illustration: Sugar Buns    Page 22]

    [Illustration: Fruit Cobbler    Page 8]

    [Illustration: French Fried Shrimp    Page 7]

    [Illustration: _A kitchen full of surprises ... because you’ve got
    your Bisquick!_]

    [Illustration: Jam Twists    Page 11]

    [Illustration: Baked Meat Sandwich    Page 15]

    [Illustration: Pizza Boats    Page 13]

    [Illustration: Deviled Ham Turnovers    Page 14]

    [Illustration: Hot Fudge Pudding    Page 8]

    [Illustration: Buttons and Bowknots    Page 22]

    [Illustration: Betty Crocker’s Bisquick Cook Book]

                                                       PRINTED IN U.S.A.




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.







End of Project Gutenberg's Betty Crocker's Bisquick Cook Book, by Anonymous



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BETTY CROCKER'S BISQUICK COOK BOOK: 157 RECIPES AND IDEAS ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


